- [ ] Technical requirements and description of the RAI finder service, Popular dataset preservation and multi-tenant RAI node and the Fair publishing of RAIs and results repository, and description of the RAI validates authenticity of results and popular dataset preservation workflows.
 \> Από \<[https://app.slack.com/client/T04F4S5GVQB/search](https://app.slack.com/client/T04F4S5GVQB/search)\>   
## **Task 3.2 RAISE FAIR Catalogue and Portal for data discovery (INTRA)**

This task will be responsible for developing researchers and end-users entry point to the RAISE system. The RAISE portal will enable browsing and discovering datasets (available in different RAI nodes) indexed according to the RAISE model (T3.1) as well as the access rules defined by each RAI node (offering protected datasets and algorithm processing), and to identify the properties of existing processed experiment results (with RAI Finder service in T3.5). This task will also develop the logic to request and track the computation of developed algorithms against a RAI node (or distributed in various nodes) hosted dataset, obtaining an immutable identifier of the dataset, algorithm and results combination. Requests will be also able to target algorithm requests for reusability to the researchers that originally produced them. For this task, first access should be granted by the Data access committee of each RAI node (T3.3) and once granted, requests will be forwarded and managed by each RAI Certified Node (T4.2) or alternatively to Complex Script Execution scheduler (T3.9), if the requested experiment requires combining algorithm results from multiple RAI nodes. The RAISE portal will also keep track (and will be able to show) the status of the different data processing tasks (T3.11), and save process involved agreements and results (Ethics assessment, IPR agreement, privacy risk assessment, and all signed data access agreements).  
Από [https://tasks.teams.microsoft.com/plan/Cm6dIZcv0EuhCLu6-Xch85YAHdL7](https://tasks.teams.microsoft.com/plan/Cm6dIZcv0EuhCLu6-Xch85YAHdL7)
 
## **Task 3.4 RAI Registration Service (WITA)**

One of the main components of the RAI Central hub will be the RAI Blockchain network which will store the successfully processed and registered experiment results in an increasing list of cryptographically linked records (blocks in blockchain terminology. Each block will contain a cryptographic hash of the previous block, a timestamp, and the transaction data containing: the processing results, the processing script (encrypted), the metadata describing the dataset and the account initiated the data processing. The implementation will be based on Hyperledger Fabric, a modular blockchain framework (extensible plug-and-play components), which facilitates the development of blockchain-based solutions. The RAI Registration Service will be the main interface with write access to the RAI Blockchain network from RAI Certified Nodes, implemented as a Rest API. Energy-efficiency of the implemented blockchain solution will be considered to align RAISE with the EU's environmental objectives. For additional resources required by the blockchain, CERTH will bring its EBSI infrastructure to be interconnected with RAISE.  
Από [https://tasks.teams.microsoft.com/plan/Cm6dIZcv0EuhCLu6-Xch85YAHdL7](https://tasks.teams.microsoft.com/plan/Cm6dIZcv0EuhCLu6-Xch85YAHdL7)
 
## **T3.5 RAI Finder service (AUTH)**

## This task will define and develop a finder and resolver service for the RAI registered research experiment outcomes. Starting from a given RAI identifier, trustable information on the authorship, timing and identification of source datasets and algorithm, together with the resulting research outputs will be retrieved and interpreted from the blockchain network. Detailed information regarding assets hosting RAI Node, access policies and extended properties of the assets will be obtained from metadata available in RAISE Portal for data discovery (T3.2) to provide users with complete information of the research experiment.

Από [https://tasks.teams.microsoft.com/plan/Cm6dIZcv0EuhCLu6-Xch85YAHdL7](https://tasks.teams.microsoft.com/plan/Cm6dIZcv0EuhCLu6-Xch85YAHdL7)
 
## **Task 3.6 RAISE FAIR Results Repository (AUTH)**

As the outcome of this task a results repository will be developed and deployed within the RAI Central Hub. This repository’s aim is to provide persistence and access (with required permission) to results produced by different RAI nodes, even when they’re down or have decided to stop participating in the RAISE network. The final aim is to be able to provide uninterrupted access and response to RAI identifiers resolving requests. It will be developed on top of existing storage services (considering EOSC offered services adoption), implementing RAISE established data access policies. For repeatability (owner repeats experiment with no script uploading) and replicability (others test same algorithm against another dataset (if opt-in by owner)) matter, each processing script will be encrypted, stored and linked to the RAI identifier. Open collaborative research (involving source code sharing) will be supported at RAI Node by Data versioning and Reproducible ML (T4.3) developed subsystem.  
Από [https://tasks.teams.microsoft.com/plan/Cm6dIZcv0EuhCLu6-Xch85YAHdL7](https://tasks.teams.microsoft.com/plan/Cm6dIZcv0EuhCLu6-Xch85YAHdL7)
 
## **Task 3.8 Popular Dataset Preservation and Multi Tenant RAI node (AUTH)**

As a results of completing this tasks, the owners of popular datasets (popularity of a dataset will be specified based on usage frequency) will be provided with the option to have their datasets cloned(and to be access under same data access conditions) to RAI Central Hub, in order to be always accessible (even when their local RAI Node is busy or down) and consume processing power of the RAI Central Hub and not from the local node. On the contrary, if a dataset is not that “popular” anymore and it is still available on the source RAI node, the owner will be informed that the dataset will no longer be available from the RAI Central Hub resources and the local RAI node will be serving its processing. Thus, a replica of a RAI Certified Node will be hosted in the RAI Central Hub. The developments of this task include logic: (i) to establish frequency-based popularity levels, (ii) to propose the user the replication or to inform them of the removal of the dataset (loss of popularity), and (iii) to manage dataset (and access policy) replication / deletion, and (iv) to specialize RAI Certified Node (T4.2) for multi tenant support, allowing popular dataset owners to manage and implement individual assets access rules. Multi tenant support module will also be tested for allowing new RAI approach adopting organizations to offer processing of their (less confidential) data assets before they decide to establish as an independent RAI Certified Node.  
Από [https://tasks.teams.microsoft.com/plan/Cm6dIZcv0EuhCLu6-Xch85YAHdL7](https://tasks.teams.microsoft.com/plan/Cm6dIZcv0EuhCLu6-Xch85YAHdL7)
 
## **Task 3.10 FAIR publishing of RAIs (AUTH)**

This task will develop all the necessary means within a service to ensure the DOI - RAI interoperability, so that the different elements involved in the RAI identified research experiment results (i.e. source dataset, algorithm and produced results) can be referenced and resolved using scientific community standard DOI identifiers. Additionally, assets will be published in Crossref through Zenodo (by integrating Zenodo API) for interlinking with other publishers' research material, for enabling RAI assets identification, linkage and referencing in the wider connected scientific communities.  
Από [https://tasks.teams.microsoft.com/plan/Cm6dIZcv0EuhCLu6-Xch85YAHdL7](https://tasks.teams.microsoft.com/plan/Cm6dIZcv0EuhCLu6-Xch85YAHdL7)
 
## **Task 3.12 RAI Production and resources deployment (AUTH)**

This task will be responsible for the RAISE core infrastructure and services deployment and operation (RAI Central Hub) performed by AUTH IT CENTER infrastructure. These RAI Central Hub services include the RAI available dataset cataloguing and discovery, the RAI produced experiments results registration and discovery, other assets and access management. RAI Node deployment will be managed on each pilot theme task (WP5), except for the RAI Node instance devoted to Popular Dataset Preservation assets processing (T3.8) thar will bedone in this task. Best practices in infrastructure resource configuration will be researched and implemented, balancing existing cloud-based EOSC and European compute and data management capacities. Also, the RAISE specific resource needs in terms of availability and the sustainability model will be taken into consideration when deploying the relevant components. In this sense, there is a strong commitment from the IT Center of AUTH to support and assist the production deployment of RAISE core services during and beyond the RAISE project execution. Dependencies with other WPs: This WP is connected with the requirements selection in WP2 and the developments of the Certified Nodes in WP4 Main outcomes: RAI Central Hub will be deployed for production, High use of RAI in scientific publications 10 Milestones: MS3- First Release of RAI Central Hub [M12] MS4- Final Release of RAI Central Hub [M40]  
Από [https://tasks.teams.microsoft.com/plan/Cm6dIZcv0EuhCLu6-Xch85YAHdL7](https://tasks.teams.microsoft.com/plan/Cm6dIZcv0EuhCLu6-Xch85YAHdL7)